# CS-230-coursework

## Project Reflection Journal

1. Briefly summarize The Gaming Room client and their software requirements. Who was the client? What type of software did they want you to design?

   1. In this project I assumed the role of a technology consultant working for Creative Technology Solutions, a client "The Gaming Room" had developed a game that was initially developed as an Android only app. They came wanting advice and recommendations on turning this Android only App to launch on multiple other operating systems, and to define what the specific requirements and chanllenges would be in implementing these changes.
   2. Their request was to implement an API based approach to provide an platform that multiple different devices could connect to and render the same information in a fast paced game environment where at least 200 different images would need to be relayed to customers and provide a smooth latency free experience for the game users.

2. What did you do particularly well in developing this documentation?

   1. In this documentation I tried to look at what current trends and challenges with different operating systems were and give honest feedback and assess each option in depth.

3. What about the process of working through a design document did you find helpful when developing the code?

   1. While I was working through and developing the code for the project the design documents helped greatly to insure that everything stayed on track and went according to plan.

4. If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?

   1. The main thing that I would change on my approach would be to breathe more and not to delay starting the assignment. Much of what I struggled with when I stepped back was fairly easily resolved or I was overthinking too much.

5. How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your software design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?

   1. Coming from a Business Management background I tried to look at this project from this view point where relevant, there are parts that need a computer science approach, but there are also areas that need to be addressed from a business standpoint and trade-offs to many different approaches. In my analyses I tried to measure and weigh these trade-offs in my recommendations.

6. How did you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a similar software application?
   1. Something that I would likely implement is to look overall at what the overall objective is meant to be and slowly work on designing from a larger more ambiguous design and refine it. Once an appropriate level of detail has been achieved I would use an iterative design approach and get the application up and running quickly and then solicit client feedback on the process as additional features and optimization are implemented into the design.

# CS-250-coursework

## Agile Reflection Journal

1. **How do I interpret user needs and implement them into a program? How does creating “user stories” help with this?**
   1. To interpret user needs there are several ways to go about this.
      1. In agile development teams working closely with the Product Owner, and they in turn with the client, are the first step towards defining the user stories that the rest of the team will use to build their software implementations off of. They will come together and help to define exactly how the development team can help solve the clients problem.
      2. In turn as the tester and developer are working on these user stories there may be times when what was what thought to be clear will need to be re-evaluated and brought to the product owner for clarification. This refinement can help flush out how specifically the client would like to see a specific aspect of the product come together and have an open diaologue through the product owner with the rest of the team.
      3. The tester also may have to think creatively as to how a potential customer will use a given application. This can help to make the application more intuitive and less likely that the customer will look elsewhere for a solution if they get frustrated trying to figure out how the application runs.
      4. Finally one of the last ways that a team may help with interpreting user needs into a program is that the product owner or scrum master may hold meetings with some of the potential customers and ask a series of questions posed from the development team. Not all of these requests may be feasible, but these can help to point out what users look for most when they are using an application or what their impressions are when they first see it.
   2. User stories through all of this are a concise and easily identifiable method that the team can use and test against to determine whether a given point that has been brought up either by the client or by customers has fully been addressed in the application and with the help of the tester clear pass/fail criteria are designed to help achieve this.
2. **How do I approach developing programs? What agile processes do I hope to incorporate into my future development work?**
   1. My approach to developing programs is first to get a base established to build off of, and then to iterate on modular pieces at a time.
   2. This approach allows for unit tests to be conducted on small subsets of the total program in isolation so that testing can be optimized and errors can be quickly found and resolved with as little loss to velocity as possible.
   3. In the future I hope to become better and segmenting functions that make sense to be segmented so that the code remains "DRY," and simple with clear documentation. When working on a team communication is critical to any projects success. If I know how a piece of code works, but the rest of my team does not because of how I've implemented it. This can have an extremely detrimental effect on the projects opperations, the most brilliant solution can be useless if the rest of the team is not able to understand what is being said or done.
3. **What does it mean to be a good team member in software development?**
   1. To me being a good team member in software development means that I am open and honest with the rest of my team on possible blindspots that I have, and that I am willing to listen and learn from each member of the team. Even if I have years of experience there are always still areas that can be refined and expanded upon. Software development like many other areas of society is rapidly changing and advancing if I neglect learning new ways of opperating and performing tasks I am liable to be left behind as technology grows and progresses.
   2. Additionally being considerate of the rest of my teams needs and being open to helping them out when they are struggling.

# CS-255-coursework

1. **Briefly summarize the DriverPass project. Who was the client? What type of system did they want you to design?**
   1. In this project DriverPass was a fictional startup company provided to explore the topics of Systems Analysis and Design. In this project the development team's project manager was tasked with completing a series of steps prior to any designs being finalized that would lay the ground work for future development. These include a Gantt Chart for estimated timeline and completion of tasks, various UML Diagrams that laid out the working of the project at different levels of view, and business documentation stating how the project would take into account the clients needs and various aspects that would need to be taking into consideration such as functional, non-functional requirements for the project, security considerations, and what some possible best practices would be to complete the project on time, and within budget.
   2. The client was a startup team called DriverPass, this consisted of Liam the owner, and Ian DriverPass's IT professional. There was mention that there would be a secretary, and various driver's working for DriverPass, but not names were ever given to these, however steps were taken to account for instances of how they would need to use the system and what their specific roles would be.
   3. The client requested that an online learning system be developed that allowed customer users to practice taking driving tests online, and see their results, these would need to be automatically updated by information either made available or otherwise provided from the DMV. Customer users would also be able to schedule time within the system to have one of DriverPass's drivers pick them up for a driving lesson so the student could recieve in person driving instruction.
2. **What did you do particularly well?**
   1. With my background in business management, I felt most comfortable exploring the business aspects and constraints of this project.
3. **If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?**
   1. I would spend more time on the the diagrams that I completed and take a look at how each user would be interacting with the system, what their daily experience with the system would be and then would try to represent this in an appropriate way within the systems diagrams without overloading these with superfluous information.
4. **How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your system design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?**
   1. While working through this project I tried to look at them through their eyese and think of what they would need to accomplish during each day. I typically did this on a higher level though and only really accounted for the instances that were specifically described in the DriverPass interview document that was provided at the beginning of the term. I knew that DriverPass would want a clearn and well organized program, the customers would like to have an intuitive and fast loading platform that they felt was well and professionally made and didn't seem like it was just thrown together. IT would want to have a system that didn't need continous oversight, but would alert them if there were issues that needed to be addressed and allow them to go in and manually update something to the correct values if there was a mismatch in data somewhere.
   2. I feel it is important to consider the user's needs when designing because as we are working on designing or developing a system if we better fit the system to what the user truly needs then we help them accomplish their goals and provide more value to them. In turn we are seen in a better light and the next time they need a solution to a problem they are more likely to turn to our team again in the future.
5. **How do you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a system?**
   1. In designing software I try to start with a birds eye view and see what goal the client is trying to accomplish. From there I'll try to get a product that will meet the clients needs at a base level and begin iterating and adding additional functionality onto it. Along the way I'd like to recieve feedback if the client is happy with the direction the project is going and give input and have a conversation about how feasible what they are requesting is within the budget that they are talking about, and the timeline they would like it completed in.
   2. Something that I'd try to do more in the future is to be better about pausing and shifting my paradigm to what the client is seeing. I feel that by being on the same page as the client from the beginning or as close as possible it's much quicker and easier to have successful project both for the development team as well as for the client.

# CS-300-coursework

## Project Reflection Journal

1. What was the problem you were solving in the projects for this course?
   1. In this course the problem that I was tasked with solving was to create a program that would read and parse a file that was given to enter course information including college course number, course name, and any prerequisite information into an appropriate data structure that could then be retrieved and searched for specific course information.
2. How did you approach the problem? Consider why data structures are important to understand.
   1. In this problem one of the biggest questions was what type of data structure to implement. Of the 3 types primarily covered in CS-300 (vector, hash table, and binary search tree) there were considerations between them that determined which would be the most optimal solution. Of these operation time for loading, searching, and sorting/printing were taken into consideration.
   2. Each has a specific use for them based off of how they handle data this makes them better in a given instance so that each as different uses. For this problem because the data would only need to be loaded once, but it may need search or print much more frequently I felt that the great loading times for loading that Vectors and Hash Tables have would not really be considered, instead I focused on these other areas.
   3. I felt that Hash Tables and Binary Search Trees here had similar load times for the length of file that was being considered, if there was a large amount of lines to parse through, such as several thousand, there could be a noticeable difference, but I felt that most universities only have a few hundred courses at most so even if applied to the full catalog instead of a portion of CS courses.
   4. The final deciding factor was the complexity required to setup the data structure. While Hash Tables would work and could be faster in a best case scenarios. I instead went with a Binary Search Tree as this was more intuitive and easier to setup, and would result in less potential overlap between the data items that were read in.
3. How did you overcome any roadblocks you encountered while going through the activities or project?
   1. Some of the methods that I used to resolve roadblocks as I was working through the project was to review past assignments in this course as well as others to determine what options would be best, as well as following debuging process to return information at specific points an see exactly where data was being changed and tracing the program to find where potential errors were.
4. How has your work on this project expanded your approach to designing software and developing programs?
   1. This project has helped me expan my approach to designing software by helping to better familiarize myself with different data structure types. I had heard of vectos quite a bit before, and different types of Hash Tables as well, Binary Search Trees I had heard of in passing but hadd not spent a great deal of time looking into them. However from this project it's sparked interest to look further into how these systems can be implemented in future systems to make systems faster and more efficient in how they use limited resources.
5. How has your work on this project evolved the way you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable?
   1. This project has helped me remember to better document my code so that if I or another developer am reading through the code and working on it the less time spent trying to understand what the code is trying to stay and the more time spent resolving the issues the better. This helps increase the velocity that projects can be completed and deliver results to customers and clients in a timely manner.

# CS-305-coursework

## Project Reflection Journal

1. Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and its software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did the company want you to address?
   1. In this project I worked with Artemis Financial, a financial institution that was looking to update their application to imrpove it's security.
   2. They specifically wanted to make sure that their systems adhered to industry standard best practices.
2. What did you do well when you found your client’s software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall well-being?
   1. In this project I felt that I did well in relating the current state of the client's application to current and future developments in software security to spot potential futer weaknesses.
   2. It's vital in software development to code securly to minimize the amount of potential bugs or errors that you may introduce into the code yourself. Many bugs that were discovered in the dependency check for the client with OWASP could have been caused by developers using custom settings that could allow for vulnerabilities to be exploited by bad actors.
   3. Software security helps to add to the companies value by giving customers piece of mind that their information is safe and they are valued more as customers by the organization. It also helps to prevent potentially millions in dollars that may be spent in the future by instead paying a few thousand dollars in the development teams time to ensure that the systems are secure and reviewing possible vulnerabilities and exploits or how these may be utilized against the system.
3. Which part of the vulnerability assessment was challenging or helpful to you?
   1. One part that I found challenging was working with the IDE. Eclipse is not my first choice for most web development tasks and the error reporting on some issues was quite lacking. When I did finally resolve these though the program went by quite quickly. There was also some issues I had with updates in the IDE that possibly caused some unintended errors or concerns as I was reviewing the project. Overall I'm confident that it was still executed well though.
4. How did you increase layers of security? In the future, what would you use to assess vulnerabilities and decide which mitigation techniques to use?
   1. In the project I tried to increase the layers of security incrementally and ensure that each part worked to the best of my ability before adding additional layers to ensure that the program worked well before moving on to add additional layers andd that there were no intended bugs introduced when adding additional layers of security.
   2. In the future I'd like to explore even more methods of automated testing and see how these can be improved to better report true vulnerabilities and not as many false positives. I really enjoyed learning more about these systems and find this automation fascinating in addition to reviewing the code itself. I feel it's good to look at the system from multiple different angles at varying stages to get a clearer picture of it's overall health as the project continues and comes to completion.
5. How did you make certain the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring the code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?
   1. One method that I tried to use was to use small tests throughout and make sure that theese changes were functional before moving on to the next, this can take more time, but I felt that overall it took less time as I spent less time hunting down where an error was introduced, since I was only reviewing a few lines of code at a time instead of reveiwing thousands of lines of code at a time.
   2. After refactoring I tried to ensure that all of the relevant sections were presented and working as intended by working through the flow chart that we were given earlier in the semester. That lists the core parts of most applications and how these parts interact, and what data is passed between them.
6. What resources, tools, or coding practices did you use that might be helpful in future assignments or tasks?
   1. Something that I used that I think will be beneficial in future endeavors was doing small batch tests, reviewing smaller samples of code or functions at a time and using these to reduce the overall time it takes to complete a project, allowing for faster velocity in project completion.
7. Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to show your skills, knowledge, and experience. What might you show future employers from this assignment?
   1. Something that I could point to from this project would be my knowledge of OWASP and how to review the dependency check for false positives.

# CS-320-coursework

## Project Reflection Journal

1. How can I ensure that my code, program, or software is functional and secure?
   1. As I'm develop different types of software I try to follow the analogy of building a car, that is commonly used in software development. Namely that you begin with the smallest version that will work and then iteratively add onto it so that it has increasingly more features. From this course I've learned to have a better appreciation of how testing should be integrated into the development process and follow a test driven development plan for software development as well. 
   2. As I work on the code I first start with analyzing what the requirements the client needs the solution to meet will be. I next review overall the structure this should take and begin by following common coding patterns such as settors and gettor functions for relevant areas. Once these are in place I work on structuring the tests that will be needed pass in order for the project to be validated and considered successful by the client. I will then enter a testing loop of developing tests first, writing the code to pass the test, and iteratively refine the code till all tests pass.
   3. I would also setup an automated process similar to dependabot or OWASP that will scan the dependencies for the project at regular intervals and alert me to changes or vulnerabilities that have been found in the tools that were used to build the software. I feel that this approach while it can be longer to setup than immediately jumping into writing the solution, overall involves less time and results in a more secure framework as the process has a more solid foundation and leverages more automated processes and can trigger alerts to the developer when certain events are triggered like a new vulnerability that can then be followed up and researched for how to best handle this development.
2. How do I interpret user needs and incorporate them into a program?
   1. When I am looking at what the user/client is needing from the system I try to put myself in their shoes and see how the tools will be used to try and make it as user friendly and intuitive as I can, a well developed tool is great, but if the user can't figure out how to use it or it's too simplified such as early iPods each has their drawbacks and can be counter productive to what was requested by the client.
   2. I try to look at the user needs and turn these into story points that I can use to test against, and where possible review with the client or project manager to ensure I'm on the same page as them so I am not thinking one way and them another.
3. How do I approach designing software?
   1. The best way I could describe my approach would be structured and methodical. I try to start with as simple and general of a working model as I can and slowly circle in on features and functionality that are needed for the project to work well. Kind of like building a house you wouldn't start with putting the roof on before you have the foundation laid. I feel that software development follows much the same path you want to make sure that at bare minimum you have something working so you can begin testing that it meets what you want it to do, then slowly add onto it and retest to make sure that nothing has broken along the way. If something doesn't match well then you know more specifically the areas of concern than throwing everything together and hoping for the best when you do run the tests.
